# Stock_Analysis
## Overview of Project

### Purpose
The purpose of this analysis was to create a data set which showcases the preformacne of stocks over the years of 2017 and 2018 so at to judge them. So the code we created served to analyze and compile the data from these sets in order to showcase the preformance of stocks in as effiecnt way as we could. Therefore we created code in VBA in order to create a compilation of the data for the stocks of each year so that a person could choose a year and then from there see all the data compiled in an easy and quick to use manner.
## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of stock performance between 2017 and 2018
When looking at the analysis for the preformance of the two stocks throughout the two years the main point taken into account was properly compiling the data and thus the intial created VBA code in  order to do the analysis. The code used created an array to run all of the tickers `Dim tickers(11) As String` and establishing an index of tickers for the stocks. From there we created a `For` loop that would run for each of the cells and compile all of the data into the format we set up using code in VBA to color code and as well format the data into appropiate format `Range("B4:B15").NumberFormat = "#,##0"`,
`For i = dataRowStart To dataRowEnd
    If Cells(i, 3) > 0 Then
    Cells(i, 3).Interior.Color = vbGreen`. Once this was done the data from the stocks could be seen an as shown in the following images there is a sharp shift in the stocks preformance from 2017 to 2018 in that while there was growth in most stocks across the board in 2017, this growth was only seen continued in 2 of the stocks which shows which would, based on prior performance be the best choice for investment. [2017_data](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/2017_data.png),[2018_data](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/2018_data.png)
### Analysis of the execution times of the original script and the refactored script
In looking at how refactoring effected the code and its preformance the main difference that can be seen is in the reduction of time needed for the code to be run, this is a consitent trend throughout both the 2017 data set and as well in the 2018 data set in the following images. [Pre-Refracted_2017.png](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/Pre-Refracted_2017.png), [VBA_Challenge_2017.png](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/VBA_Challenge_2017.png), [Pre-Refracted_2018.png](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/Pre-Refracted_2018.png), [VBA_Challegne_2018.png](https://github.com/mhaus2001/Stock_Analysis/blob/main/Module_2_Challenge/Resources/VBA_Challegne_2018.png). How this reduction in run time was accomplished was through the establishment of a tickerIndex which would be accesed by 3 additional output arrays `tickerVolumes`, `tickerStartingPrices`, and `tickerEndingPrices`, using nested `For`loops in order to improve the logic of the code. this made it so that there was less computation needed in order to compile the data in the sheet as it was further eastablished in the refactored code than in the orginal what was being accesed and what was done with it. The result of this, as seen in the previous images, was a reduction in the time needed to carry out the code thereby making it more effiecent.
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
When looking at the challenges that occured in writing this code and refactoring it for increased efficiancy, the main point of trouble came in refactoring as a new error occured causing the code to be unable to be carried out. The intrudution of new varibles to specifiy the tasks needed for the code to carry out were not properly placed initially and it was only after looking over the code and ensuring that all the syntax was correct and the varribles and loops were properly set up that it started running correctly. 
## Results

#### What are the advantages or disadvantages of refactoring code?
The advantages of refactoring code is that it can make code more effiecent in how it completes its assigned task and in doing reduce the time, and as well make it   easier to understand as it is much more clear in how it is coded to carry out the assigned task. However there are downsides to this, those being that while in     making changes to the code new bugs could occur and make it so the code no longer can carry out its assigned function.

#### How do these pros and cons apply to refactoring the original VBA script?
These pros and cons were applied in the refactoring of the script in that with the additional code the assigned task was carried out much more effiecently, as seen in the reduction of time needed for code to be carried out. However, as was noted in the challegnes section, there was new errors introduced into the code which resulted in additional debuging that wouldn't have been neccesary if the original code was kept.
